the Asian region
2018/12/14
The Dropping Elephant actor | Securelist
By GReAT on July 8, 2016. 5:57 am
Dropping Elephant (also known as “Chinastrats” and “Patchwork“) is a relatively new threat actor
that is targeting a variety of high proﬁle diplomatic and economic targets using a custom set of
attack tools. Its victims are all involved with China’s foreign relations in some way, and are
generally caught through spear-phishing or watering hole attacks.
Overall, the activities of this actor show that low investment and ready-made oﬀensive toolsets
can be very eﬀective when combined with high quality social engineering. We have seen more
such open source toolset dependency with meterpreter and BeEF, and expect to see this trend
continue.
Conclusion
Campaigns do not always need to be technically advanced to be successful. In this case, a small
group reusing exploit code, some powershell-based malware and mostly social engineering has
been able to steal sensitive documents and data from victims since at least November 2015.

Our analysis of the C2 server conﬁrmed the high proﬁle of most victims, mainly based in the Asian
region and specially focused on Chinese interests. Actually, some hints suggest the group has been
We use cookies to make your experience of our websites better. By using and further navigating this website you
accept this. Detailed information about the use of cookies on this website is available by clicking on more
information.
2018/12/14
successful enough to have recently expanded its operations, perhaps after proving its eﬀectiveness
and the value of the data stolen.

The Dropping Elephant actor | Securelist

This is quite worrying, especially given the fact that no 0 days or advanced techniques were used
against such high proﬁle targets. Simply applying software patches will prevent attacks based on
old exploits, as well as training in the most basic social engineering attacks.

However, it should be noted that in this case Microsoft´s patch for exploit CVE-2014-1761 just
warns the user not to allow the execution of the suspicious ﬁle.

Dropping Elephant artifacts are detected by Kaspersky Lab products as: 
Exploit.Win32.CVE-2012-0158.* 
Exploit.MSWord.CVE-2014-1761.* 
Trojan-Downloader.Win32.Genome.* 
HEUR:Trojan.Win32.Generic
