MONSOON is the name given to the Forcepoint Security Labs™
investigation into an ongoing espionage campaign that the Special
Investigations team have been tracking and analysing since May 2016. 
The overarching campaign appears to target both Chinese nationals
within different industries and government agencies in Southern Asia. It
appears to have started in December 2015 and is still ongoing as of July
2016.
Amongst the evidence gathered during the MONSOON investigation were 
a number of indicators which make it highly probable1 that this adversary 
and the OPERATION HANGOVER [1], [2] adversary are one and the 
same. These indicator include the use of the same infrastructure for the 
attacks, similar Tactics, Techniques and Procedures (TTPs), the targeting 
of demographically similar victims and operating geographically within the 
Indian Subcontinent.
The malware components used in MONSOON are typically distributed through weaponised documents
sent through e-mail to specifically chosen targets. Themes of these documents are usually political in
nature and taken from recent publications on topical current affairs. Several malware components have
been used in this operation including Unknown Logger Public, TINYTYPHON, BADNEWS, and an AutoIt
[3] backdoor.
BADNEWS is particularly interesting, containing resilient command-and-control (C&C) capability using RSS
feeds, Github, forums, blogs and Dynamic DNS hosts.
This whitepaper provides an in-depth understanding and insight into the actors and their campaign. It
includes detailed analysis and findings, previously undocumented malware components, victims, and
infrastructure involved.KEY FEATURES
Adversary. Strong indication that this is conducted by
the OPERATION HANGOVER group [1].
This group has been active since at least 2010 [2].
Intent. Data Exfiltration.
Infrastructure. Non-traditional resilient and obscure
C&C. Including GitHub, forums, news items and RSS 
feeds.
Capability. BADNEWS and TINYTYPHON malware.
Re-use of tool sets including: Metasploit, AutoIt 
Backdoor, MyDoom, Shellcode loading via Powershell, 
Unknown Logger. “PATCHWORK” [4].
CVE Exploitation.
Current News Lures – Lures via email with tracking 
images.
Over 172 lure documents, most referencing topical news 
items, relevant to the victims of interest. Most common 
lure document: 2016_China_Military_PowerReport.
Victims. Over 110 different victim countries and 6,300 
victim IP addresses.
Victims of Interest. Government Agencies, Armed 
Forces, Embassies: Sri Lanka, Ceylon, South Korean,
Victim of Opportunity. Those with passing interest in 
Chinese military strategy being ‘snared’ by the lure web 
site. Majority in China (61% of all victims)
Timeframe. Between December 2015 to July 2016