In March and April 2018, Volexity identified multiple spear phishing campaigns attributed to Patchwork, an Indian APT group also known as
Dropping Elephant. This increase in threat activity was consistent with other observations documented over the last few months in blogs by
360 Threat Intelligence Center analyzing attacks on Chinese organizations and Trend Micro noting targets in South Asia. From the attacks
observed by Volexity, what is most notable is that Patchwork has pivoted its targeting and has launched attacks directly against US-based
think tanks. Volexity has also found that, in addition to sending malware lures, the Patchwork threat actors are leveraging unique tracking
links in their e-mails for the purpose of identifying which recipients opened their e-mail messages.
In three observed spear phishing campaigns, the threat actors leveraged domains and themes mimicking those of well-known think tank
organizations in the United States. The group lix ed articles and themes from the Council on Foreign Relations (CFR), the Center for Strategic
and International Studies (CSIS), and the Mercator Institute for China Studies (MERICS) for use in their spear phishing lures and malicious
Rich Text Format (RTF) documents. Strangely, in one case, the threat actors also appear to have used a domain name similar to the Foreign
Policy Research Institute (FPRI) in a message purporting to be from CFR. Each of the spear phishing attacks contained links to .doc files,which were really RTF documents that attempt to exploit CVE-2017-8750 (Composite Moniker). The threat actors appear to have leveraged
publicly available exploit code that can be found on Github at the URL: https://github.com/rxwx/CVE-2017-8570. If the exploit is successful,
the threat actors will attempt to drop and execute QuasarRAT. Details of the malware and the associated attacks are listed below.The addition of US-based think tanks to the list of organizations in the crosshairs of Patchwork shows an increasing diversity in the
geographic regions being targeted. While there were a few peculiar components to some of the spear phish messages, the campaigns and
themes were strategically relevant to the organizations being targeted. The Patchwork threat actors also appear to have adopted a
technique seen from other APT groups where they are now tracking the ew ectiveness of their campaigns by recording which recipients have
opened the phishing message. This information allows a threat actor to determine if their messages were delivered, which users are more
susceptible to opening them, and basic information regarding the target’s operating system and e-mail client (or browser). Finally, although
the payload observed being delivered by Patchwork in these campaigns is a readily available open source RAT, it does allow for flexibility in
interacting with compromised machines without needing to use custom malware. Volexity is actively tracking this group and the
infrastructure currently in use for the benefit of its network security monitoring and threat intelligence customers.